README.md, before:

# AI Agent - Intelligent Automation Platform

A comprehensive AI-powered automation platform that combines natural language processing, document analysis, log analysis, calendar management, and GitHub PR review capabilities using LLaMA 3 and LangChain.

## 🚀 Overview

This AI-assistant is designed to facilitate efficient machine learning model training (RAG-based, storing issues and resolutions in a local vector database), automate pull request reviews with detailed comments on code quality and optimization, manage Gmail calendar, compose and send/delete mail with voice-controlled instructions, and summarize logs/documents/reports.

It uses Python (as the backend) wrapped in FastAPI and React as the Frontend.

## 👁️ Preview
<img width="1050" height="703" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95ee41c5-5a9d-4bd0-a1f9-bf4b6cccee42" />

## Features

### 🤖 AI Chat Agent
- Natural language interface powered by LLaMA 3 (Ollama)
- Context-aware conversations
- Mathematical computation support
- Document Q&A capabilities

### 📄 Document Analysis
- Upload and analyze PDF and text documents
- AI-powered document summarization
- Question-answering on uploaded documents

### 📊 RAG-based Log Analyzer
- Upload and index log files
- Semantic search across logs using FAISS vector store
- Natural language queries for log analysis
- Support for multiple log files with consolidated indexing

### 📅 Google Calendar Integration
- OAuth 2.0 authentication
- Create, view, and delete calendar events
- Schedule meetings with Google Meet links
- Retrieve events by date
- Support for attendees and locations

### 📧 Gmail Integration
- Read and summarize emails
- Mark emails as read/unread
- AI-powered email summarization

### 🔍 GitHub PR Review
- Automated pull request review
- Code quality analysis
- Vulnerability detection
- Best practices suggestions
- AI-generated review comments

### 🧠 Training & Knowledge Base
- Save issue-resolution pairs
- Similarity-based issue matching using sentence transformers
- Suggest resolutions based on historical data
- Training history management

## Architecture

```
AI-python/
├── main_fastapi.py           # Main FastAPI backend server
├── math_ai_agent_doc.py       # LLaMA 3 agent with tool support
├── rag_log_analyzer.py        # RAG-based log analysis
├── training_store.py          # Issue resolution training store
├── pr_review.py               # GitHub PR review automation
├── gmail_auth.py              # Gmail OAuth authentication
├── ai-agent-ui/               # React frontend
├── logs/                      # Log files directory
├── embeddings/                # FAISS vector store
├── uploaded_docs/             # Uploaded documents storage
└── credentials_*.json         # OAuth credentials
```

## Prerequisites

### System Requirements
- Python 3.10+
- Node.js 16+ (for frontend)
- Ollama with LLaMA 3 model installed

### Ollama Setup
```bash
# Install Ollama (if not already installed)
curl -fsSL https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh

# Pull LLaMA 3 model
ollama pull llama3

# Pull embedding model for RAG
ollama pull nomic-embed-text
```

## Installation

### Quick Setup

Use the automated setup script:
```bash
./setup.sh
```

Or follow manual installation:

### Backend Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sandeepknd/AI-agents.git
cd AI-agents
```

2. Install Python dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
# Create .env file
echo "GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here" > .env
```

4. Configure Google OAuth:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Create a project and enable Google Calendar API and Gmail API
   - Create OAuth 2.0 credentials
   - Download credentials and save as:
     - `credentials_calendar.json` (for Calendar)
     - `credentials_per_gmail.json` (for Gmail)

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd ai-agent-ui
npm install
```

## Running the Application

### Start Backend Server

```bash
# From the root directory
uvicorn main_fastapi:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

The API will be available at:
- API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

### Start Frontend

```bash
# From ai-agent-ui directory
cd ai-agent-ui
npm start
```

The UI will be available at: http://localhost:3000

## API Endpoints

### Chat & AI Agent
- `POST /ask` - Send queries to the AI agent
  ```json
  {
    "query": "What is the derivative of x^2?"
  }
  ```

### Document Management
- `POST /upload` - Upload and analyze documents
- `POST /upload-log` - Upload log files for indexing
- `POST /analyze-log` - Query log files

### Calendar Operations
- `GET /authorize-calendar` - Start OAuth flow
- `GET /oauth2callback` - OAuth callback
- `GET /get-events` - Get upcoming events
- `POST /create-event` - Create calendar event
- `GET /get-events-by-date?date=YYYY-MM-DD` - Get events for specific date
- `POST /schedule-meeting` - Schedule meeting with Google Meet
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Team Standup",
    "start_time": "2024-03-15T10:00:00",
    "end_time": "2024-03-15T11:00:00",
    "description": "Daily standup meeting",
    "attendees": ["user@example.com"],
    "create_meet_link": true
  }
  ```
- `DELETE /delete-event?event_id=xxx` - Delete event

### Training & Knowledge Base
- `POST /train-model` - Save issue-resolution pair
  ```json
  {
    "issue": "Server not responding",
    "resolution": "Restart the service using systemctl restart app"
  }
  ```
- `POST /suggest-resolution` - Get AI-powered resolution suggestions
- `GET /get-training-history` - View training history
- `DELETE /clear-training-history` - Clear training data

### GitHub PR Review
- `POST /webhook` - GitHub webhook for PR events
- `POST /comment` - Post comment on PR
  ```json
  {
    "pr_url": "https://github.com/user/repo/pull/123",
    "comment": "LGTM! Great work on this feature."
  }
  ```
- `POST /generate-comment` - Generate AI review comment
  ```json
  {
    "pr_url": "https://github.com/user/repo/pull/123"
  }
  ```

## Usage Examples

### Chat with AI Agent
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/ask \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is 15 factorial?"}'
```

### Upload and Analyze Log
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/upload-log \
  -F "file=@application.log"

curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/analyze-log \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "Show me all error messages"}'
```

### Schedule a Meeting
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/schedule-meeting \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Project Review",
    "start_time": "2024-03-20T14:00:00",
    "end_time": "2024-03-20T15:00:00",
    "attendees": ["team@example.com"],
    "create_meet_link": true
  }'
```

### Generate PR Review
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/generate-comment \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"pr_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/pull/42"}'
```

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **FastAPI** - Modern web framework for APIs
- **LangChain** - LLM orchestration framework
- **Ollama** - Local LLM runtime (LLaMA 3)
- **FAISS** - Vector similarity search
- **Sentence Transformers** - Text embeddings
- **Google API Client** - Calendar and Gmail integration

### Frontend
- **React 19** - UI framework
- **Axios** - HTTP client
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Framer Motion** - Animations
- **React Icons** - Icon library

### AI/ML
- **LLaMA 3** - Large language model
- **nomic-embed-text** - Embedding model for RAG
- **all-MiniLM-L6-v2** - Sentence similarity model

## Configuration

### Environment Variables
```bash
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_personal_access_token
HF_TOKEN=your_huggingface_token  # Optional, for higher rate limits
```

### Calendar OAuth Scopes
The application requests the following Google Calendar scopes:
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar`

### Gmail OAuth Scopes
For Gmail integration:
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly`

## Troubleshooting

### Ollama Connection Issues
```bash
# Check if Ollama is running
ollama list

# Restart Ollama service
systemctl restart ollama  # Linux
# or
brew services restart ollama  # macOS
```

### Import Errors
If you encounter LangChain import errors, ensure you have the correct packages:
```bash
pip install --upgrade langchain langchain-community langchain-classic langchain-text-splitters
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Find process using port 8000
lsof -i :8000

# Kill the process
kill -9 <PID>
```

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Frontend tests
cd ai-agent-ui
npm test

# Backend tests (if implemented)
pytest
```

### Code Style
The project follows PEP 8 for Python and Prettier for JavaScript/React.

## Security Considerations

1. **API Keys**: Never commit `credentials_*.json`, `token.json`, or `.env` files
2. **OAuth Tokens**: Tokens are stored locally in `token.json` and `token_mail.pickle`
3. **GitHub Token**: Store in environment variable or `.env` file
4. **CORS**: Frontend is restricted to `http://localhost:3000` in production

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

[Specify your license here]

## Acknowledgments

- LangChain for the excellent LLM framework
- Ollama for local LLM deployment
- FastAPI for the modern Python web framework
- React community for the frontend ecosystem

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

Built with ❤️ using LLaMA 3, LangChain, and FastAPI

Commit message:

Update README: Clarify RAG-based training feature description
- Update Training & Knowledge Base section to emphasize RAG-based approach
- Clarify that the engine selects three most relevant solutions from history
- Better explain the flow: local history → RAG → LLM → final verdict

README.md, after:

# AI Agent - Intelligent Automation Platform

A comprehensive AI-powered automation platform that combines natural language processing, document analysis, log analysis, calendar management, and GitHub PR review capabilities using LLaMA 3 and LangChain.

## 🚀 Overview

This AI-assistant is designed to facilitate efficient machine learning model training (RAG-based, storing issues and resolutions in a local vector database), automate pull request reviews with detailed comments on code quality and optimization, manage Gmail calendar, compose and send/delete mail with voice-controlled instructions, and summarize logs/documents/reports.

It uses Python (as the backend) wrapped in FastAPI and React as the Frontend.

## 👁️ Preview
<img width="1050" height="703" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95ee41c5-5a9d-4bd0-a1f9-bf4b6cccee42" />

## Features

### 🤖 AI Chat Agent
- Natural language interface powered by LLaMA 3 (Ollama)
- Context-aware conversations
- Mathematical computation support
- Document Q&A capabilities

### 📄 Document Analysis
- Upload and analyze PDF and text documents
- AI-powered document summarization
- Question-answering on uploaded documents

### 📊 RAG-based Log Analyzer
- Upload and index log files
- Semantic search across logs using FAISS vector store
- Natural language queries for log analysis
- Support for multiple log files with consolidated indexing

### 📅 Google Calendar Integration
- OAuth 2.0 authentication
- Create, view, and delete calendar events
- Schedule meetings with Google Meet links
- Retrieve events by date
- Support for attendees and locations

### 📧 Gmail Integration
- Read and summarize emails
- Mark emails as read/unread
- AI-powered email summarization

### 🔍 GitHub PR Review
- Automated pull request review
- Code quality analysis
- Vulnerability detection
- Best practices suggestions
- AI-generated review comments

### 🧠 RAG based Training & Knowledge Base
- Save issue-resolution pairs
- RAG based engine selects three most relevant solutions from the local saved resolution history, before sending to the LLM for final verdict.
- Training history management

## Architecture

```
AI-python/
├── main_fastapi.py           # Main FastAPI backend server
├── math_ai_agent_doc.py       # LLaMA 3 agent with tool support
├── rag_log_analyzer.py        # RAG-based log analysis
├── training_store.py          # Issue resolution training store
├── pr_review.py               # GitHub PR review automation
├── gmail_auth.py              # Gmail OAuth authentication
├── ai-agent-ui/               # React frontend
├── logs/                      # Log files directory
├── embeddings/                # FAISS vector store
├── uploaded_docs/             # Uploaded documents storage
└── credentials_*.json         # OAuth credentials
```

## Prerequisites

### System Requirements
- Python 3.10+
- Node.js 16+ (for frontend)
- Ollama with LLaMA 3 model installed

### Ollama Setup
```bash
# Install Ollama (if not already installed)
curl -fsSL https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh

# Pull LLaMA 3 model
ollama pull llama3

# Pull embedding model for RAG
ollama pull nomic-embed-text
```

## Installation

### Quick Setup

Use the automated setup script:
```bash
./setup.sh
```

Or follow manual installation:

### Backend Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sandeepknd/AI-agents.git
cd AI-agents
```

2. Install Python dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
# Create .env file
echo "GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here" > .env
```

4. Configure Google OAuth:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Create a project and enable Google Calendar API and Gmail API
   - Create OAuth 2.0 credentials
   - Download credentials and save as:
     - `credentials_calendar.json` (for Calendar)
     - `credentials_per_gmail.json` (for Gmail)

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd ai-agent-ui
npm install
```

## Running the Application

### Start Backend Server

```bash
# From the root directory
uvicorn main_fastapi:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

The API will be available at:
- API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

### Start Frontend

```bash
# From ai-agent-ui directory
cd ai-agent-ui
npm start
```

The UI will be available at: http://localhost:3000

## API Endpoints

### Chat & AI Agent
- `POST /ask` - Send queries to the AI agent
  ```json
  {
    "query": "What is the derivative of x^2?"
  }
  ```

### Document Management
- `POST /upload` - Upload and analyze documents
- `POST /upload-log` - Upload log files for indexing
- `POST /analyze-log` - Query log files

### Calendar Operations
- `GET /authorize-calendar` - Start OAuth flow
- `GET /oauth2callback` - OAuth callback
- `GET /get-events` - Get upcoming events
- `POST /create-event` - Create calendar event
- `GET /get-events-by-date?date=YYYY-MM-DD` - Get events for specific date
- `POST /schedule-meeting` - Schedule meeting with Google Meet
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Team Standup",
    "start_time": "2024-03-15T10:00:00",
    "end_time": "2024-03-15T11:00:00",
    "description": "Daily standup meeting",
    "attendees": ["user@example.com"],
    "create_meet_link": true
  }
  ```
- `DELETE /delete-event?event_id=xxx` - Delete event

### Training & Knowledge Base
- `POST /train-model` - Save issue-resolution pair
  ```json
  {
    "issue": "Server not responding",
    "resolution": "Restart the service using systemctl restart app"
  }
  ```
- `POST /suggest-resolution` - Get AI-powered resolution suggestions
- `GET /get-training-history` - View training history
- `DELETE /clear-training-history` - Clear training data

### GitHub PR Review
- `POST /webhook` - GitHub webhook for PR events
- `POST /comment` - Post comment on PR
  ```json
  {
    "pr_url": "https://github.com/user/repo/pull/123",
    "comment": "LGTM! Great work on this feature."
  }
  ```
- `POST /generate-comment` - Generate AI review comment
  ```json
  {
    "pr_url": "https://github.com/user/repo/pull/123"
  }
  ```

## Usage Examples

### Chat with AI Agent
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/ask \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is 15 factorial?"}'
```

### Upload and Analyze Log
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/upload-log \
  -F "file=@application.log"

curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/analyze-log \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "Show me all error messages"}'
```

### Schedule a Meeting
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/schedule-meeting \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Project Review",
    "start_time": "2024-03-20T14:00:00",
    "end_time": "2024-03-20T15:00:00",
    "attendees": ["team@example.com"],
    "create_meet_link": true
  }'
```

### Generate PR Review
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/generate-comment \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"pr_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/pull/42"}'
```

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **FastAPI** - Modern web framework for APIs
- **LangChain** - LLM orchestration framework
- **Ollama** - Local LLM runtime (LLaMA 3)
- **FAISS** - Vector similarity search
- **Sentence Transformers** - Text embeddings
- **Google API Client** - Calendar and Gmail integration

### Frontend
- **React 19** - UI framework
- **Axios** - HTTP client
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Framer Motion** - Animations
- **React Icons** - Icon library

### AI/ML
- **LLaMA 3** - Large language model
- **nomic-embed-text** - Embedding model for RAG
- **all-MiniLM-L6-v2** - Sentence similarity model

## Configuration

### Environment Variables
```bash
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_personal_access_token
HF_TOKEN=your_huggingface_token  # Optional, for higher rate limits
```

### Calendar OAuth Scopes
The application requests the following Google Calendar scopes:
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar`

### Gmail OAuth Scopes
For Gmail integration:
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly`

## Troubleshooting

### Ollama Connection Issues
```bash
# Check if Ollama is running
ollama list

# Restart Ollama service
systemctl restart ollama  # Linux
# or
brew services restart ollama  # macOS
```

### Import Errors
If you encounter LangChain import errors, ensure you have the correct packages:
```bash
pip install --upgrade langchain langchain-community langchain-classic langchain-text-splitters
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Find process using port 8000
lsof -i :8000

# Kill the process
kill -9 <PID>
```

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Frontend tests
cd ai-agent-ui
npm test

# Backend tests (if implemented)
pytest
```

### Code Style
The project follows PEP 8 for Python and Prettier for JavaScript/React.

## Security Considerations

1. **API Keys**: Never commit `credentials_*.json`, `token.json`, or `.env` files
2. **OAuth Tokens**: Tokens are stored locally in `token.json` and `token_mail.pickle`
3. **GitHub Token**: Store in environment variable or `.env` file
4. **CORS**: Frontend is restricted to `http://localhost:3000` in production

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

[Specify your license here]

## Acknowledgments

- LangChain for the excellent LLM framework
- Ollama for local LLM deployment
- FastAPI for the modern Python web framework
- React community for the frontend ecosystem

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

Built with ❤️ using LLaMA 3, LangChain, and FastAPI
